README.rst, before:

\ |Build Status| |Coverage Status| |PyPI version|

Module for generating and verifying `JSON Web
Tokens <http://self-issued.info/docs/draft-ietf-oauth-json-web-token.html>`__.

-  **Note:** Versions 1.0.0 and later fix `a
   vulnerability <https://www.timmclean.net/2015/02/25/jwt-alg-none.html>`__
   in JSON Web Token verification so please upgrade if you're using this
   functionality. The API has changed so you will need to update your
   application.
   `verify\_jwt <http://rawgit.davedoesdev.com/davedoesdev/python-jwt/master/docs/_build/html/index.html#jwt.verify_jwt>`__
   now requires you to specify which signature algorithms are allowed.
-  Uses `python-jws <https://github.com/brianloveswords/python-jws>`__
   to do the heavy lifting.
-  Supports `**RS256**, **RS384**,
   **RS512** <http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-algorithms-14#section-3.3>`__,
   `**PS256**, **PS384**,
   **PS512** <http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-algorithms-14#section-3.5>`__,
   `**HS256**, **HS384**,
   **HS512** <http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-algorithms-14#section-3.2>`__
   and
   `**none** <http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-algorithms-14#section-3.6>`__
   signature algorithms.
-  Unit tests, including tests for interoperability with
   `node-jsjws <https://github.com/davedoesdev/node-jsjws>`__.
-  Supports Python 3.4. **Note:**
   `generate\_jwt <http://rawgit.davedoesdev.com/davedoesdev/python-jwt/master/docs/_build/html/index.html#jwt.generate_jwt>`__
   returns the token as a Unicode string, even on Python 2.7.

Example:

.. code:: python

    import jwt, Crypto.PublicKey.RSA as RSA, datetime
    key = RSA.generate(2048)
    payload = { 'foo': 'bar', 'wup': 90 };
    token = jwt.generate_jwt(payload, key, 'PS256', datetime.timedelta(minutes=5))
    header, claims = jwt.verify_jwt(token, key, ['PS256'])
    for k in payload: assert claims[k] == payload[k]

The API is described
`here <http://rawgit.davedoesdev.com/davedoesdev/python-jwt/master/docs/_build/html/index.html>`__.

Installation
------------

.. code:: shell

    pip install python_jwt

Another Example
---------------

You can read and write keys from and to
`PEM-format <http://www.openssl.org/docs/crypto/pem.html>`__ strings:

.. code:: python

    import jwt, Crypto.PublicKey.RSA as RSA, datetime
    key = RSA.generate(2048)
    priv_pem = key.exportKey()
    pub_pem = key.publickey().exportKey()
    payload = { 'foo': 'bar', 'wup': 90 };
    priv_key = RSA.importKey(priv_pem)
    pub_key = RSA.importKey(pub_pem)
    token = jwt.generate_jwt(payload, priv_key, 'RS256', datetime.timedelta(minutes=5))
    header, claims = jwt.verify_jwt(token, pub_key, ['RS256'])
    for k in payload: assert claims[k] == payload[k]

Licence
-------

`MIT <https://raw.github.com/davedoesdev/python-jwt/master/LICENCE>`__

Tests
-----

.. code:: shell

    make test

Lint
----

.. code:: shell

    make lint

Code Coverage
-------------

.. code:: shell

    make coverage

`coverage.py <http://nedbatchelder.com/code/coverage/>`__ results are
available
`here <http://rawgit.davedoesdev.com/davedoesdev/python-jwt/master/coverage/html/index.html>`__.

Coveralls page is
`here <https://coveralls.io/r/davedoesdev/python-jwt>`__.

Benchmarks
----------

.. code:: shell

    make bench

Here are some results on a laptop with an Intel Core i5-3210M 2.5Ghz CPU
and 6Gb RAM running Ubuntu 13.04.

+----------------+---------------+------------+---------------+
| Generate Key   | user (ns)     | sys (ns)   | real (ns)     |
+================+===============+============+===============+
| RSA            | 152,700,000   | 300,000    | 152,906,095   |
+----------------+---------------+------------+---------------+

+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| Generate Token   | user (ns)   | sys (ns)   | real (ns)   |
+==================+=============+============+=============+
| HS256            | 140,000     | 10,000     | 157,202     |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| HS384            | 160,000     | 10,000     | 156,403     |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| HS512            | 139,999     | 20,000     | 153,212     |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| PS256            | 3,159,999   | 49,999     | 3,218,649   |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| PS384            | 3,170,000   | 10,000     | 3,176,899   |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| PS512            | 3,120,000   | 9,999      | 3,141,219   |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| RS256            | 3,070,000   | 20,000     | 3,094,644   |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| RS384            | 3,090,000   | 0          | 3,092,471   |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| RS512            | 3,079,999   | 20,000     | 3,095,314   |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+

+------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| Load Key   | user (ns)   | sys (ns)   | real (ns)   |
+============+=============+============+=============+
| RSA        | 811,000     | 0          | 810,139     |
+------------+-------------+------------+-------------+

+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| Verify Token   | user (ns)   | sys (ns)   | real (ns)   |
+================+=============+============+=============+
| HS256          | 140,000     | 0          | 129,947     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| HS384          | 130,000     | 0          | 130,161     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| HS512          | 119,999     | 0          | 128,850     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| PS256          | 780,000     | 10,000     | 775,609     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| PS384          | 759,999     | 0          | 752,933     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| PS512          | 739,999     | 0          | 738,118     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| RS256          | 700,000     | 0          | 719,365     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| RS384          | 719,999     | 0          | 721,524     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| RS512          | 730,000     | 0          | 719,706     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/davedoesdev/python-jwt.png
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/davedoesdev/python-jwt
.. |Coverage Status| image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/davedoesdev/python-jwt/badge.png?branch=master
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/davedoesdev/python-jwt?branch=master
.. |PyPI version| image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/python_jwt.png
   :target: http://badge.fury.io/py/python_jwt

Commit message:

Change namespace to python_jwt

README.rst, after:

\ |Build Status| |Coverage Status| |PyPI version|

Module for generating and verifying `JSON Web
Tokens <http://self-issued.info/docs/draft-ietf-oauth-json-web-token.html>`__.

-  **Note:** From version 2.0.0 the namespace has changed from ``jwt``
   to ``python_jwt``, in order to avoid conflict with
   `PyJWT <https://github.com/jpadilla/pyjwt>`__.
-  **Note:** Versions 1.0.0 and later fix `a
   vulnerability <https://www.timmclean.net/2015/02/25/jwt-alg-none.html>`__
   in JSON Web Token verification so please upgrade if you're using this
   functionality. The API has changed so you will need to update your
   application.
   `verify\_jwt <http://rawgit.davedoesdev.com/davedoesdev/python-jwt/master/docs/_build/html/index.html#jwt.verify_jwt>`__
   now requires you to specify which signature algorithms are allowed.
-  Uses `python-jws <https://github.com/brianloveswords/python-jws>`__
   to do the heavy lifting.
-  Supports `**RS256**, **RS384**,
   **RS512** <http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-algorithms-14#section-3.3>`__,
   `**PS256**, **PS384**,
   **PS512** <http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-algorithms-14#section-3.5>`__,
   `**HS256**, **HS384**,
   **HS512** <http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-algorithms-14#section-3.2>`__
   and
   `**none** <http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-algorithms-14#section-3.6>`__
   signature algorithms.
-  Unit tests, including tests for interoperability with
   `node-jsjws <https://github.com/davedoesdev/node-jsjws>`__.
-  Supports Python 3.4. **Note:**
   `generate\_jwt <http://rawgit.davedoesdev.com/davedoesdev/python-jwt/master/docs/_build/html/index.html#jwt.generate_jwt>`__
   returns the token as a Unicode string, even on Python 2.7.

Example:

.. code:: python

    import python_jwt as jwt, Crypto.PublicKey.RSA as RSA, datetime
    key = RSA.generate(2048)
    payload = { 'foo': 'bar', 'wup': 90 };
    token = jwt.generate_jwt(payload, key, 'PS256', datetime.timedelta(minutes=5))
    header, claims = jwt.verify_jwt(token, key, ['PS256'])
    for k in payload: assert claims[k] == payload[k]

The API is described
`here <http://rawgit.davedoesdev.com/davedoesdev/python-jwt/master/docs/_build/html/index.html>`__.

Installation
------------

.. code:: shell

    pip install python_jwt

Another Example
---------------

You can read and write keys from and to
`PEM-format <http://www.openssl.org/docs/crypto/pem.html>`__ strings:

.. code:: python

    import python_jwt as jwt, Crypto.PublicKey.RSA as RSA, datetime
    key = RSA.generate(2048)
    priv_pem = key.exportKey()
    pub_pem = key.publickey().exportKey()
    payload = { 'foo': 'bar', 'wup': 90 };
    priv_key = RSA.importKey(priv_pem)
    pub_key = RSA.importKey(pub_pem)
    token = jwt.generate_jwt(payload, priv_key, 'RS256', datetime.timedelta(minutes=5))
    header, claims = jwt.verify_jwt(token, pub_key, ['RS256'])
    for k in payload: assert claims[k] == payload[k]

Licence
-------

`MIT <https://raw.github.com/davedoesdev/python-jwt/master/LICENCE>`__

Tests
-----

.. code:: shell

    make test

Lint
----

.. code:: shell

    make lint

Code Coverage
-------------

.. code:: shell

    make coverage

`coverage.py <http://nedbatchelder.com/code/coverage/>`__ results are
available
`here <http://rawgit.davedoesdev.com/davedoesdev/python-jwt/master/coverage/html/index.html>`__.

Coveralls page is
`here <https://coveralls.io/r/davedoesdev/python-jwt>`__.

Benchmarks
----------

.. code:: shell

    make bench

Here are some results on a laptop with an Intel Core i5-3210M 2.5Ghz CPU
and 6Gb RAM running Ubuntu 13.04.

+----------------+---------------+------------+---------------+
| Generate Key   | user (ns)     | sys (ns)   | real (ns)     |
+================+===============+============+===============+
| RSA            | 152,700,000   | 300,000    | 152,906,095   |
+----------------+---------------+------------+---------------+

+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| Generate Token   | user (ns)   | sys (ns)   | real (ns)   |
+==================+=============+============+=============+
| HS256            | 140,000     | 10,000     | 157,202     |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| HS384            | 160,000     | 10,000     | 156,403     |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| HS512            | 139,999     | 20,000     | 153,212     |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| PS256            | 3,159,999   | 49,999     | 3,218,649   |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| PS384            | 3,170,000   | 10,000     | 3,176,899   |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| PS512            | 3,120,000   | 9,999      | 3,141,219   |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| RS256            | 3,070,000   | 20,000     | 3,094,644   |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| RS384            | 3,090,000   | 0          | 3,092,471   |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| RS512            | 3,079,999   | 20,000     | 3,095,314   |
+------------------+-------------+------------+-------------+

+------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| Load Key   | user (ns)   | sys (ns)   | real (ns)   |
+============+=============+============+=============+
| RSA        | 811,000     | 0          | 810,139     |
+------------+-------------+------------+-------------+

+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| Verify Token   | user (ns)   | sys (ns)   | real (ns)   |
+================+=============+============+=============+
| HS256          | 140,000     | 0          | 129,947     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| HS384          | 130,000     | 0          | 130,161     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| HS512          | 119,999     | 0          | 128,850     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| PS256          | 780,000     | 10,000     | 775,609     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| PS384          | 759,999     | 0          | 752,933     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| PS512          | 739,999     | 0          | 738,118     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| RS256          | 700,000     | 0          | 719,365     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| RS384          | 719,999     | 0          | 721,524     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+
| RS512          | 730,000     | 0          | 719,706     |
+----------------+-------------+------------+-------------+

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/davedoesdev/python-jwt.png
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/davedoesdev/python-jwt
.. |Coverage Status| image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/davedoesdev/python-jwt/badge.png?branch=master
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/davedoesdev/python-jwt?branch=master
.. |PyPI version| image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/python_jwt.png
   :target: http://badge.fury.io/py/python_jwt
